bread was one of the last things I
learned to bake it used to be really
daunting but now I love it and I've got
a fruity little recipe that will show
you just how easy bread baking can be
this is the quickest loaf you'll ever
make my fruity zesty soda bread is
served up with mouth-watering homemade
butter when my kids are in bed this is
the perfect time to make soda bread
because I want to say it from the telly
with a cup of tea but I want to make a
loaf of bread for them for tomorrow
morning so I can just knock it up done
so to start off with I've got 500 grams
of plain flour in my bowl ready to go
give it 1 teaspoon of salt and the same
of bicarbonate of soda and the great
thing about this bread is there's no
yeast the raising agent is in the bike
up the fruitiness comes from 100 grams
of shop-bought mixed peel and 100 grams
of currants zing it up with the zest of
fresh orange and lemon whenever I am
baking what I need to do is go upstairs
beforehand and make sure all the kids
spread in jaws a shot as if they can
smell anything happening downstairs and
they say they're sleepwalking they're
lying I know they just all like
something woke me up I have two
tablespoons of sugar and 50 grams of
vegetable suet make a little well in the
center and then add my buttermilk this
buttermilk is my crucial hack to instant
bread when it mixes with the bicarbonate
of soda it releases bubbles of air
giving the bread its lightning-quick
rise
this soda bread is my cheat it's my go
to this is my ticket to an evening on
the couch just gonna get my hands in now
that's it
I don't want to need this I just want to
work with it really quickly I mean look
at it right that just literally seconds
to bring it together and you can see
that look
no kneading that's it that's my dough
done rough as you like so much quicker
than a yeasted dough result what's
really important when you make soda
bread is the cutting so you've got to go
all the way down if it can puff up and
you get lovely chunky bits of bread I
cannot wait for the smells in this
kitchen at 220 degrees in just 30
minutes
we'll have delicious fresh bread now the
quickest homemade butter I never waste
anything especially not leftover double
cream all you need is always the trick
to making good butter is to not
concentrate at all right my kind of
recipe
can you see what's happened before you
know it is starting to curdle and it's
time to sit too far oh no I can't use
our cream anymore
no we're gonna make butter you go it
whenever I make butter my husband always
says surely butter I'm gonna chuck that
all straight in there how speedy was
that simply drain off the liquid using a
muslin cloth and there's enough butter
to last the week
[Music]
you could smell the kitchen like fresh
bread and currants and orange lemon and
just just warm it just smells so good
but while it's still warm I have got to
have just a little bit can you hear that
crisp crunchy but soft it's almost too
good to be true
fruity Moorish bread and heavenly
homemade butter in no time at all just
lashings
[Music]
this would be right here ready for them
when they wake up ready to go to school
in the morning but right now while I've
just got a tiny little bit of me time
I'm gonna enjoy my warm bread and
delicious butter when you're in a hurry
easy baking can be a tonic make friends
with your oven and enjoy the priceless
time it offers you back
[Music]